VIDEO: V 42 - WHO IS ELIGIBLE TO GET TREATMENT AT AFMS HOSPITALS?
URL: https://youtu.be/4B6rRqp-sVI

=== AUDIO TRANSCRIPT ===
 Hello all, I am Commander Sunthanam from Bangalore, Karnataka, India. In my previous videos, I have covered the facilities which are available to ECHS beneficiaries in case they need to reach a hospital under emergency medical condition or with a referral to a Imperial hospital. In addition to the Imperial Hospital, the options are non-empanied hospital, where you have to pay and then apply for reimbursement and AIFM is military hospitals. However, ECHS beneficiaries are recognized to beneficiaries beyond the ex-servicemen, spouse and children below 25 years. In addition to that, others such as parents, brothers, sisters, etc., are also allowed to be ECHS beneficiaries if they are eligible. In case of AIFM as hospitals, there are certain restrictions in terms of accepting certain category of beneficiaries. AIFM as hospitals recognize for treatment only the veteran, spouse and children below 25 years. Only these ECHS beneficiaries, if they require treatment and admission in AIFM as hospitals, they will be referred by the respective polyclinics to the AIFM as hospitals. All other dependents who are also ECHS beneficiaries such as, as I mentioned, parents, brothers and sisters or persons with disability as for 2016, above the age of 25 years, etc., all these categories of people, if they require specialist consultation or admission for treatment, they will be referred by the respective polyclinics directly to the empaneled hospital. They will not be referred to the AIFM as hospitals because AIFM as hospitals will not accept these categories of ECHS beneficiaries. As an important aspect, please note this to avoid unnecessary travel to AIFM as hospitals and then returning to go to empanelasticity. This is the 42nd YouTube video on ECHS services I have launched till date. Do not forget to hit the subscribe button in my YouTube channel, helping hands for ECHS. Jai Hind.

=== VISUAL TEXT FROM SLIDES ===

[At 1.0s]
V K Santhanam
