VIDEO: V 48 -TREATMENT IN AFMS HOSPITALS & 100 % REIMBURSEMENT FOR CERTAIN CATEGORY OF ECHS BENEFICIARIES
URL: https://youtu.be/G6rslaBvth4

=== AUDIO TRANSCRIPT ===
 Hello all. This video is about important changes to policy pertaining to treatment in AFMS hospital or military hospitals for non-intitled ECHS beneficiaries and reimbursement of the charges. Let me just give you an introduction. Treatment at AFMS hospitals for ECHS beneficiaries since the time ECHS was formed here in 2003. Only the following beneficiaries are eligible for free treatment, namely the veteran or ex-savishman, spouse and dependent children below the age of 25 years. All these three categories will have ECHS cards or their members of the ECHS. As per the policy for this treatment here, the following were not eligible for free treatment. Veterans, brother and sister, PwD to 1, 2, 0, 1, 6 beneficiaries that is disabled as per this particular PwD act to above the age of 25 years and other types of eligible ECHS beneficiaries. That means all these people are ECHS card holders but were not eligible for free treatment at AFMS hospitals. That is military hospitals. The treatment was actually on payment for the bills are raised by service hospitals and these people were ECHS beneficiaries were required to pay. This is called as hospital stoppage role HSR. You have to know only this terminology, nothing over the requirement. In addition to this, till now, whatever payment was made by these people for the treatment at AFMS hospitals, they were not reimbursable at all. A policy was available about a few months back or maybe last year that whenever these people were required to be referred to specialist, polyclinics were to refer above directly to the M-panel hospital so that they do not have to go here and paid and can not get reimbursable. Here it is cashless. So these are the limitations which are there till now. Now with effect from 14th December 2022, this policy has been modified which is ESM friendly changes have been brought into the policy. Let us see what is the changes. ECHS beneficiaries will benefit our now parents, brother and sister and beneficiaries who are covered by PWD Act 2016 above the age of 25 years and other ECHS beneficiaries. Now in order to go and get treatment at a service hospital by these people, referral is not mandatory from the polyclinic. Now in the service hospital charges for the treatment which is called as HSR hospital stoppage rolls and any other charges, these will be paid by the beneficiary before discharge completely. You have to make the payment get the bills from the service hospital. Only by these people please understand ESM spouse and children below 25 years are continue to get free treatment. Now the changes once you have made this payment, that payment is now 100% reimbursable. Till 14th of December this was not reimbursable as we just saw in the previous slide. AFMS hospital on discharge will provide bill with a breakup of charges and a discharge summary. Beneficiary will submit claim either online or directly by hand to parent polyclinic. The procedure is as equivalent to individual claim which you have been submitting all these years. The next step is the bill processing agency called as BPA will process this claim and reimburs 100% as applicable to the government hospital. In video number 46 of 47, I covered how to get treatment in government hospital by making the payment and getting 100% reimbursable. Now for these people, the treatment in AFMS hospital is completely reimbursable which is a very major beneficiary change which has happened with effect from 14th of December 2022. As I always indicate in other videos, this is a voluntary effort. You can visit my web portal and my youtube channel. This is the 48th video I have launched on ECHS services. I hope you benefit by this. If you like these videos, please click on subscribe button in the youtube channel. Jai Hind.

=== VISUAL TEXT FROM SLIDES ===

[At 1.0s]
PowerPoint Slide Show - [TREATMENT IN SERVICE HOSP & REIMBURSEMENT OF NON ENTITLED ECHS BENEFICIRIES.pptx] - PowerPoint
Slide 1 of 5
HELPING HANDS FOR ECHS
A VOLUNTEER EFFORT TO HELP VETERANS & FAMILIES ON ECHS ISSUES
THIS VIDEO IS ABOUT
IMPORTANT CHANGES TO POLICY
TREATMENT IN AFMS HOSPITAL
&
REIMBURSEMENT OF CHARGES
NON ENTITLED ECHS BENEFICIARIES
O O 2
0
