VIDEO: V 3 - EMERGENCY - TREATMENT IN NON EMPANELLED HOSPITAL
URL: https://youtu.be/wCbVxrf6-7U

=== AUDIO TRANSCRIPT ===
 Hello all. I'm Commander Santana from Bangalore, Karnataka, India. This video is part of the series I'm making on how to manage emergency medical condition being faced by an ECH's beneficiary. There are multiple treatment options available to you. One, go to the nearest Imperial Hospital. Second, go to the nearest non-empanel hospital. The third, go to the nearest literary hospital. These are not given under any priority. You can choose what is best option available to you. Treatment of an emergency by reaching the Imperial Hospital nearest to your home was covered by me in a video published on the 12th of May 2022 in the YouTube. What is an emergency as per easy edges? Any life threatening medical condition is called as an emergency. Few examples of the emergency medical condition are cardio-em agency such as a heart attack. Snake bite is an emergency, dog bite. Any animal bite is an emergency. Neuro-em agencies, kidney failure, acute poisoning, COVID. The list contains about 14 plus categories under life threatening medical condition. If there is any doubt that there is likely to be a loss of life or limb, that condition can be called as an emergency. Under an emergency condition or a life threatening medical condition, the first action is to reach the non-empanel hospital nearest to you. The family or the next of kin should carry easy HS card and a government issued identity card. If possible, carry the past medical records as well. As the treatment commences at the non-empanel hospital as an emergency, the family or the next of kin should obtain a very important document called emergency information report from the hospital. In short, it is called as EAR. This letter signed with all emergency medical conditions, return in that and stamped by the hospital in the letterhead of the hospital. This must be submitted by the family or the next of kin to the polyclinic. This document should also indicate the date and time when the patient was brought inside the hospital. The EAR must be sent to the polyclinic by an email or if possible, it can be handed over to the polyclinic. This action should be completed within 48 hours. The original copy of the EAR should be kept safely by the beneficiary as it is required to be submitted for the reimbursement of the medical expenses. The treatment in a non-empanel hospital is not repeat, not cashless. You must clear the bills and make necessary payment as per the hospital bill prior to the discharge. Once the treatment is completed and the patient is being discharged, ensure that you collect the discharge summary, collect itemized bills for the payment you are made. For example, room rent will be an item. Any lap test will be an item. Any other procedures which have been carried out is an item. What medicines have been provided for which you are making the payment will be an item in the bill. All documents which you collect must be in a hospital letterhead signed and stamped by the hospital. Within 90 days from the discharge, you should be able to submit a reimbursement claim for every payment which you are made. Please note the reimbursement of each item will be limited to CGHS or ECHS rates only. Your claim must have a covering letter and attaching all documents in original. You should complete a contingent bill and sign it. Enclose a copy of the ECHS card. A cancelled bank check along with the other documents. Submit the covering letter along with all documents in original to the polyclinic. Get an acknowledgement of having submitted the claim from the polyclinic in your copy. It is important that you keep a copy of all documents submitted with you so that in case of any queries, you will be able to answer them satisfactorily using these documents. There is a facility available for you to upload the claim online in the ECHS site. However, within 15 days of upload, you should submit the hard copy in original to the polyclinic so that your claim is processed. The polyclinic will generate a claim ID and will be shared with you. You can track the status of the claim online using the claim ID. When the claim is approved, the reimbursement amount will be credited to the bank account. Your provider. Subscribe to this YouTube channel if you like this video and the other videos. This will also help to get notifications about the future videos I am planning to post. Please visit my web portal called Helping Hands for ECHS where you can read step-by-step procedures for every facility offered by ECHS. Call me in my mobile if you need help. You

=== VISUAL TEXT FROM SLIDES ===

[At 1.0s]
HELPING HANDS FOR ECHS
A VOLUNTEER EFFORT TO HELP VETERANS & FAMILIES ON ECHS ISSUES
VIDEO ON
MEDICAL EMERGENCY
HOW TO USE NON-EMPANELLED HOSPITAL FACILITIES
FOR DETAILS VISIT WEB PORTAL
https://echscoregroup.github.io/helping-hands-for-echs/
For HELP CALL CDR SANTHANAM @ 97400 72879

[At 11.0s]
VK Santhanam

[At 521.0s]
HELPING HANDS FOR ECHS
CDR SANTHANAM(RETD)
A VOLUNTEER EFFORT TO HELP VETERANS & FAMILIES ON ECHS ISSUES
VISIT WEB PORTAL
https://echscoregroup.github.io/helping-hands-for-echs/
For HELP CALL 97400 72879
